README.md, before:

# 🚀 Harness Debugger CLI

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A powerful command-line tool for troubleshooting Harness CI/CD pipelines and delegates. This utility helps DevOps engineers and developers quickly identify and resolve common issues within their Harness environment.

## ✨ Features

- **Delegate Management**
  - List all delegates with status and metadata
  - Get detailed delegate information
  - Generate connectivity test commands for network troubleshooting

- **Pipeline Debugging**
  - Identify failed pipeline runs
  - Analyze which delegates were used in failed stages
  - Extract detailed error information

- **Connector Insights**
  - List connectors and their properties
  - Find connectors using specific delegate selectors

- **Output Formats**
  - Human-readable colorized output
  - JSON format for integration with other tools

## 📋 Requirements

- Python 3.6 or higher
- pip package manager

## 🔧 Installation

```
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ka1ne/harness-debugger.git
cd harness-debugger

# Install the package
pip install -e .
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

The tool needs your Harness API credentials to function. You can provide these in two ways:

### Environment Variables (Recommended)

```
export HARNESS_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
export HARNESS_ACCOUNT_ID="your_account_id_here"
export HARNESS_ORG_ID="your_org_id_here"  # Optional
export HARNESS_PROJECT_ID="your_project_id_here"  # Optional
```

### Command Line Arguments

```
harness-debugger --api-key="your_api_key" --account="your_account_id" delegate list
```

## 🔍 Usage Examples

### Delegate Management

**List all delegates:**
```
harness-debugger delegate list
```

**Get detailed information about a specific delegate:**
```
harness-debugger delegate info YOUR_DELEGATE_ID
```

**Test delegate connectivity to external services:**
```
harness-debugger delegate test-connectivity YOUR_DELEGATE_ID
harness-debugger delegate test-connectivity YOUR_DELEGATE_ID --urls https://github.com https://docker.io
```

### Pipeline Troubleshooting

**Check for failed runs in a specific pipeline stage:**
```
harness-debugger pipeline check --pipeline=YOUR_PIPELINE_ID --stage=YOUR_STAGE_NAME
```

**Check for delegate usage in failed pipeline stages:**
```
harness-debugger delegate check-pipeline --pipeline=YOUR_PIPELINE_ID --stage=YOUR_STAGE_NAME
```

### Connector Management

**List all connectors:**
```
harness-debugger connector list
```

**Find connectors using a specific delegate selector:**
```
harness-debugger connector by-delegate YOUR_DELEGATE_SELECTOR
```

## 📊 JSON Output

You can get JSON output for programmatic processing:

```
harness-debugger delegate list --output=json
harness-debugger pipeline check --pipeline=ID --stage=NAME --output=json
```

## 👨‍💻 Development

### Setup Development Environment

```
# Install development dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### Run Tests

```
# Run all tests
make test

# Run linting
make lint
```

### Clean Project

```
make clean
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- The Harness platform for providing the APIs that power this tool
- All contributors to the project
```

Commit message:

Add .gitignore and update README with .env configuration

README.md, after:

# 🚀 Harness Debugger CLI

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A powerful command-line tool for troubleshooting Harness CI/CD pipelines and delegates. This utility helps DevOps engineers and developers quickly identify and resolve common issues within their Harness environment.

## ✨ Features

- **Delegate Management**
  - List all delegates with status and metadata
  - Get detailed delegate information
  - Generate connectivity test commands for network troubleshooting

- **Pipeline Debugging**
  - Identify failed pipeline runs
  - Analyze which delegates were used in failed stages
  - Extract detailed error information

- **Connector Insights**
  - List connectors and their properties
  - Find connectors using specific delegate selectors

- **Output Formats**
  - Human-readable colorized output
  - JSON format for integration with other tools

## 📋 Requirements

- Python 3.6 or higher
- pip package manager

## 🔧 Installation

```
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ka1ne/harness-debugger.git
cd harness-debugger

# Install the package
pip install -e .
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

The tool needs your Harness API credentials to function. You can provide these in two ways:

### Environment Variables (Recommended)

```
export HARNESS_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
export HARNESS_ACCOUNT_ID="your_account_id_here"
export HARNESS_ORG_ID="your_org_id_here"  # Optional
export HARNESS_PROJECT_ID="your_project_id_here"  # Optional
```

### Using a .env File (Recommended for Development)

You can also create a `.env` file in the project root with your credentials:

```
HARNESS_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
HARNESS_ACCOUNT_ID="your_account_id_here"
HARNESS_ORG_ID="your_org_id_here"
HARNESS_PROJECT_ID="your_project_id_here"
```

Then install and use python-dotenv to load these values:

```python
# In your code
from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()  # This loads the variables from .env
```

The `.env` file is included in .gitignore to prevent accidentally sharing your credentials.

### Command Line Arguments

```
harness-debugger --api-key="your_api_key" --account="your_account_id" delegate list
```

## 🔍 Usage Examples

### Delegate Management

**List all delegates:**
```
harness-debugger delegate list
```

**Get detailed information about a specific delegate:**
```
harness-debugger delegate info YOUR_DELEGATE_ID
```

**Test delegate connectivity to external services:**
```
harness-debugger delegate test-connectivity YOUR_DELEGATE_ID
harness-debugger delegate test-connectivity YOUR_DELEGATE_ID --urls https://github.com https://docker.io
```

### Pipeline Troubleshooting

**Check for failed runs in a specific pipeline stage:**
```
harness-debugger pipeline check --pipeline=YOUR_PIPELINE_ID --stage=YOUR_STAGE_NAME
```

**Check for delegate usage in failed pipeline stages:**
```
harness-debugger delegate check-pipeline --pipeline=YOUR_PIPELINE_ID --stage=YOUR_STAGE_NAME
```

### Connector Management

**List all connectors:**
```
harness-debugger connector list
```

**Find connectors using a specific delegate selector:**
```
harness-debugger connector by-delegate YOUR_DELEGATE_SELECTOR
```

## 📊 JSON Output

You can get JSON output for programmatic processing:

```
harness-debugger delegate list --output=json
harness-debugger pipeline check --pipeline=ID --stage=NAME --output=json
```

## 👨‍💻 Development

### Setup Development Environment

```
# Install development dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### Run Tests

```
# Run all tests
make test

# Run linting
make lint
```

### Clean Project

```
make clean
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- The Harness platform for providing the APIs that power this tool
- All contributors to the project
